CombinedSurveyData_2008_2019_nona_2021-05-26

Data that combines NEAMAP, NEFSC, MENH and DFO FI survey data for Illex
... records with NAs generated by the absense of date time or lat lon stamps for samples were removed. All these data were aquired/accesseed in April and May, 2021 




Fields:
Survey- (MENH,NEAMAP,NEFSC, CAN).  Can is the DFO survey
time.utc-  date time of tow in UTC
Latitude- Latitude in decimal degrees
Longitude- Longitude in decimal degrees
Areasw_km-  Developed  using different methods based on the data available.  NEAMAP provided Area swept with each observed tow tow.  DFO(=CAN) and MENH provided distances towed in km for each tow.  These were multplied by wing spreads in meters (See SurveyTowParams.png[need to add DFO net here]).  FOR NEFSC data.  Distances between tow starting and endpoints in lat lon were calculated for each tow (see writeup below).  These were then multiplied by wingspreads in meters.
Total.Count- total count of squid
Total.Weight- total biomass of squid per tow
azimuth-  Solar azimuth angle
altitude -  solar altitude ... to include diel variation in catchabiluty
x.utm -  Longitude convered to UTM in meters to put geographic coordinates on the same scale
y.utm- Latutude convered to UTM in meters to put geographic coordinates on the same scale for modeling
doy-  Day of the year
logAreasw- log swept area to use and an ofsset.
yr- year
seas- season.  See below.  Season 1 is "spring" all samples taken before day 179 (~June 29) Season 2 ""fall" all samples post 179
declin-  declination of the sun.


See below for text about data wrangling 
 

"2.1.1.1 Data used for model training and testing
	We used shortfin squid catches in bottom trawl surveys conducted by the Northeast Fishery Science Center (NEFSC), the Northeast Area Monitoring and Assessment Program (NEAMAP), and the Maine and New Hampshire Inshore Groundfish Trawl Survey (MENH).  We also included the Canadian Department of Fisheries and Oceans Maritimes Research Vessel Trawl Survey data  (DFOCAN) in the analysis (Figure 1). All of the surveys have stratified random designs. We developed the SDM using survey data for the years 2008-2019 for the following reasons. All 4 surveys were conducted in full beginning in 2008.  In 2020 the surveys were cancelled, curtailed or delayed due to the Covid 19 Pandemic.  
	There are diel and seasonal difference timing of the surveys.  Sampling on the NEFSC and DFOCAN surveys occurs throughout the 24 hour day.  Sampling on NEAMAP and MENH is conducted mainly during daylight hours.  The spring NEAMAP and MENH surveys are conducted from late April to the beginning of June; fall surveys, from September through November (Figure 2). The Spring NEFSC survey is conducted from late February though early June while the fall survey is conducted from September through November.  DFOCAN is conducted from mid February through March, while a summer survey is conducted from late June to mid August.  
	Several independent variables were developed for the trawl tows for use in the modeling.  Survey samples were allocated to two “seasonal” periods (Winter + Spring =Spring; Summer+Fall=Fall).  “Spring” surveys were conducted before day of the year 179 (June 28 in non leap years).  Samples collected from day of the year 179 through November were allocated to the “fall” season.  No annual seasonal survey had samples allocated to both seasons. For surveys in which wing swept area for each sample were not provided (all surveys except NEAMAP), the variable was calculated from published net wing spreads and tow distances included in the data sets or computed from latitudes and longitudes of the beginning and end of each tow using the ‘Haversine' great circle distance method (NEFSC; geosphere package). Catch rates of Illex vary over the 24 hour day (Bochenek & Powell, 2021; Brodziak & Hendrickson, 1998).  As a result, we used “oce” library in R (Kelly 2018) to compute solar elevations during sampling using dates and times of tows (UTC) and geopositions. Finally, the “Rgdal” library in R (Bivand et al., 2019) was used to convert the Latitudes and Longitudes of tows to Universal Transverse Mercator coordinates in meters so geographic coordinates were on the same scale."

More info

In the NEFSC bottom trawl survey and the DFOCAN survey tows are made during the day and night. NEFSC bottom trawl survey uses a standardized Yankee 36 trawl prior to 2009 and a three-bridle, four-seam trawl thereafter. The distance between the wings of the net was designed to be 13M. The vessel used for conducting the survey transitioned from the Albatross to the Bigelow in 2009, following a calibration study in 2008 (Miller et al. 2010). The NEFSC bottom trawl survey gear and protocols are described in Politis et al. (2014).   The DFOCAN uses a ???.  The distance between the wings of the net is 12.5M

The NEAMAP and MENH inshore surveys are conducted principally during daylight hours. The NEAMAP survey uses a trawl of the same design as used in the  NEFSC surveys conducted by the Bigelow, but with a three-inch cookie sweep instead of a rockhopper sweep. Thus the distance between the wings of the net is 13M. Full details of the survey protocols are described in Bonzek et al. (2017). The MENH survey follows uses a modified shrimp net design with a distance between the wings of HAD THIS FIGURED OUT FOR COMPUTATION BUT Stupidly DIDNT WRITE?. For a complete description of the ME/NH survey sampling protocols, see Sherman et al. (2005).  


